SKILL.md, before:

---
name: managing-google-sheets
description: Read, write, and update Google Sheets data via CLI. Use when the user asks to read spreadsheet data, update cells, append rows, or work with Google Sheets. Triggers on mentions of spreadsheets, sheets, Google Sheets, tabular data in the cloud, or specific sheet names like "Projects" or "Tasks".
---

# sheets-cli

CLI for Google Sheets primitives. Read tables, append rows, update cells by key or index, batch operations.

## Quick Reference

```bash
# Find spreadsheet by name
sheets-cli sheets find --name "Projects"

# List sheets/tabs
sheets-cli sheets list --spreadsheet <id-or-url>

# Read table data
sheets-cli read table --spreadsheet <id> --sheet "Sheet1" --limit 100

# Update by key column (preferred - rows can shift)
sheets-cli update key --spreadsheet <id> --sheet "Projects" \
  --key-col "Name" --key "Acme" --set '{"Status":"Done"}'

# Append row
sheets-cli append --spreadsheet <id> --sheet "Projects" \
  --values '{"Name":"NewCo","Status":"Active"}'
```

## Workflow Pattern

Always follow **read → decide → dry-run → apply**:

```bash
# 1. Understand current state
sheets-cli read table --sheet "Tasks" --limit 100

# 2. Dry-run first
sheets-cli update key --sheet "Tasks" --key-col "ID" --key "TASK-42" \
  --set '{"Status":"Complete"}' --dry-run

# 3. Apply if dry-run looks correct
sheets-cli update key --sheet "Tasks" --key-col "ID" --key "TASK-42" \
  --set '{"Status":"Complete"}'
```

## Commands

### Auth (Setup)
```bash
sheets-cli auth login --credentials <oauth-client.json>
sheets-cli auth status
sheets-cli auth logout
```

### Find Spreadsheet by Name
```bash
sheets-cli sheets find --name "<query>" [--limit 10]
```
Searches Google Drive for spreadsheets matching the name. Returns ID, name, URL.

> Requires Google Drive API enabled in the project.

### List Sheets/Tabs
```bash
sheets-cli sheets list --spreadsheet <id>
```

### Sheet Info
```bash
sheets-cli sheet info --spreadsheet <id> --sheet "<name>"
sheets-cli sheet info --spreadsheet <id> --gid <gid>
```
Get sheet metadata by name or GID.

### Get Header Row
```bash
sheets-cli header --spreadsheet <id> --sheet "<name>" [--header-row N]
```
Returns column headers. Auto-detects header row if not specified.

### Read Table Data
```bash
sheets-cli read table --spreadsheet <id> --sheet "<name>" [--limit N] [--raw]
```
Returns `{ headers: [...], rows: [{...}, ...], headerRow: N }`.

### Read Raw Range
```bash
sheets-cli read range --spreadsheet <id> --range "Sheet1!A1:B10"
```

### Append Row
```bash
sheets-cli append --spreadsheet <id> --sheet "<name>" \
  --values '<json>' [--dry-run]
```
JSON object with column names as keys. Column matching is case-insensitive with normalized whitespace.

### Update by Key (Preferred)
```bash
sheets-cli update key --spreadsheet <id> --sheet "<name>" \
  --key-col "<column>" --key "<value>" --set '<json>' \
  [--allow-multi] [--dry-run]
```
Finds rows where `key-col` equals `key`, updates columns from `--set`. Throws if multiple matches unless `--allow-multi`.

### Update by Row Index
```bash
sheets-cli update row --spreadsheet <id> --sheet "<name>" \
  --row <n> --set '<json>' [--dry-run]
```
Updates specific row by 1-indexed row number. Less safe than key-based updates.

### Set Range
```bash
sheets-cli set range --spreadsheet <id> --range "Sheet1!A1:B2" \
  --values '<2d-json-array>' [--dry-run]
```

### Batch Operations
```bash
sheets-cli batch --spreadsheet <id> --ops '<json-array>' [--dry-run]
```
Operations: `append`, `updateRow`, `updateKey`, `setRange`.

## Global Options

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `--spreadsheet <id>` | Spreadsheet ID or full URL |
| `--dry-run` | Preview without applying |
| `--header-row <n>` | Header row (auto-detects if omitted) |
| `--value-input <mode>` | `USER_ENTERED` (default) or `RAW` |

## Output Format

All commands return JSON:

```json
{
  "ok": true,
  "cmd": "update key",
  "spreadsheetId": "...",
  "sheet": "Projects",
  "result": { "matchedRows": 1, "updatedCells": 2 }
}
```

Errors:
```json
{
  "ok": false,
  "cmd": "update key",
  "error": { "code": "VALIDATION_ERROR", "message": "..." }
}
```

## Best Practices

1. **Use `sheets find`** to get spreadsheet ID from name
2. **`--spreadsheet` accepts URLs** - paste full Google Sheets URL directly
3. **Prefer key-based updates** over row indices - rows shift on insert/delete
4. **Always dry-run** before writes
5. **Check `ok` field** in response before proceeding
6. **Batch related operations** for atomicity
7. **Column names match case-insensitively** with normalized whitespace
8. **Header row auto-detects** - skips empty rows to find first data row
9. **Headerless sheets:** `read table` returns columns as `A`, `B`, ...; use column letters for `--set` / `--key-col`
10. **Empty sheets:** `append` can bootstrap by writing a header row from JSON keys
11. **`read table --range`** accepts `A1:Z` (auto-prefixed with the sheet)

## Exit Codes

| Code | Meaning |
|------|---------|
| 0 | Success |
| 10 | Validation error |
| 20 | Auth error |
| 30 | Permission error |
| 40 | API/transient error |

Commit message:

docs: add skill sync commands + clarify PATH install

SKILL.md, after:

---
name: managing-google-sheets
description: Read, write, and update Google Sheets data via CLI. Use when the user asks to read spreadsheet data, update cells, append rows, or work with Google Sheets. Triggers on mentions of spreadsheets, sheets, Google Sheets, tabular data in the cloud, or specific sheet names like "Projects" or "Tasks".
---

# sheets-cli

CLI for Google Sheets primitives. Read tables, append rows, update cells by key or index, batch operations.

> **Installation:** `sheets-cli` is already installed and available in the user's PATH. Run commands directly—no installation needed.

## Quick Reference

```bash
# Find spreadsheet by name
sheets-cli sheets find --name "Projects"

# List sheets/tabs
sheets-cli sheets list --spreadsheet <id-or-url>

# Read table data
sheets-cli read table --spreadsheet <id> --sheet "Sheet1" --limit 100

# Update by key column (preferred - rows can shift)
sheets-cli update key --spreadsheet <id> --sheet "Projects" \
  --key-col "Name" --key "Acme" --set '{"Status":"Done"}'

# Append row
sheets-cli append --spreadsheet <id> --sheet "Projects" \
  --values '{"Name":"NewCo","Status":"Active"}'
```

## Workflow Pattern

Always follow **read → decide → dry-run → apply**:

```bash
# 1. Understand current state
sheets-cli read table --sheet "Tasks" --limit 100

# 2. Dry-run first
sheets-cli update key --sheet "Tasks" --key-col "ID" --key "TASK-42" \
  --set '{"Status":"Complete"}' --dry-run

# 3. Apply if dry-run looks correct
sheets-cli update key --sheet "Tasks" --key-col "ID" --key "TASK-42" \
  --set '{"Status":"Complete"}'
```

## Commands

### Auth (Setup)
```bash
sheets-cli auth login --credentials <oauth-client.json>
sheets-cli auth status
sheets-cli auth logout
```

### Find Spreadsheet by Name
```bash
sheets-cli sheets find --name "<query>" [--limit 10]
```
Searches Google Drive for spreadsheets matching the name. Returns ID, name, URL.

> Requires Google Drive API enabled in the project.

### List Sheets/Tabs
```bash
sheets-cli sheets list --spreadsheet <id>
```

### Sheet Info
```bash
sheets-cli sheet info --spreadsheet <id> --sheet "<name>"
sheets-cli sheet info --spreadsheet <id> --gid <gid>
```
Get sheet metadata by name or GID.

### Get Header Row
```bash
sheets-cli header --spreadsheet <id> --sheet "<name>" [--header-row N]
```
Returns column headers. Auto-detects header row if not specified.

### Read Table Data
```bash
sheets-cli read table --spreadsheet <id> --sheet "<name>" [--limit N] [--raw]
```
Returns `{ headers: [...], rows: [{...}, ...], headerRow: N }`.

### Read Raw Range
```bash
sheets-cli read range --spreadsheet <id> --range "Sheet1!A1:B10"
```

### Append Row
```bash
sheets-cli append --spreadsheet <id> --sheet "<name>" \
  --values '<json>' [--dry-run]
```
JSON object with column names as keys. Column matching is case-insensitive with normalized whitespace.

### Update by Key (Preferred)
```bash
sheets-cli update key --spreadsheet <id> --sheet "<name>" \
  --key-col "<column>" --key "<value>" --set '<json>' \
  [--allow-multi] [--dry-run]
```
Finds rows where `key-col` equals `key`, updates columns from `--set`. Throws if multiple matches unless `--allow-multi`.

### Update by Row Index
```bash
sheets-cli update row --spreadsheet <id> --sheet "<name>" \
  --row <n> --set '<json>' [--dry-run]
```
Updates specific row by 1-indexed row number. Less safe than key-based updates.

### Set Range
```bash
sheets-cli set range --spreadsheet <id> --range "Sheet1!A1:B2" \
  --values '<2d-json-array>' [--dry-run]
```

### Batch Operations
```bash
sheets-cli batch --spreadsheet <id> --ops '<json-array>' [--dry-run]
```
Operations: `append`, `updateRow`, `updateKey`, `setRange`.

## Global Options

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `--spreadsheet <id>` | Spreadsheet ID or full URL |
| `--dry-run` | Preview without applying |
| `--header-row <n>` | Header row (auto-detects if omitted) |
| `--value-input <mode>` | `USER_ENTERED` (default) or `RAW` |

## Output Format

All commands return JSON:

```json
{
  "ok": true,
  "cmd": "update key",
  "spreadsheetId": "...",
  "sheet": "Projects",
  "result": { "matchedRows": 1, "updatedCells": 2 }
}
```

Errors:
```json
{
  "ok": false,
  "cmd": "update key",
  "error": { "code": "VALIDATION_ERROR", "message": "..." }
}
```

## Best Practices

1. **Use `sheets find`** to get spreadsheet ID from name
2. **`--spreadsheet` accepts URLs** - paste full Google Sheets URL directly
3. **Prefer key-based updates** over row indices - rows shift on insert/delete
4. **Always dry-run** before writes
5. **Check `ok` field** in response before proceeding
6. **Batch related operations** for atomicity
7. **Column names match case-insensitively** with normalized whitespace
8. **Header row auto-detects** - skips empty rows to find first data row
9. **Headerless sheets:** `read table` returns columns as `A`, `B`, ...; use column letters for `--set` / `--key-col`
10. **Empty sheets:** `append` can bootstrap by writing a header row from JSON keys
11. **`read table --range`** accepts `A1:Z` (auto-prefixed with the sheet)

## Exit Codes

| Code | Meaning |
|------|---------|
| 0 | Success |
| 10 | Validation error |
| 20 | Auth error |
| 30 | Permission error |
| 40 | API/transient error |
